# BSP S3: Extension of low-code development platform with intelligent components

This repository contains all important information about Bachelor's semester project in Semester 3, performed during Autumn 2023 by Fedor Chikhachev, under the supervision of Dr. Jordi Cabot Sagrera.

## Project report

A formal [report]() in IEEE format has been produced as a final deliverable for this project.

## Source code

Mostly the work was done within [BESSER](https://modeling-languages.com/lowcode-opensource-besser/) project, whose source code was updated and developed. 

### Folder 'integrated-to-BESSER'

These files are part of structure of [BESSER project](https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER/), they can be located in official repository, in `src/generators` submodule.

### Other files

To run other files, firsty you need to install BESSER library locally:

## Installation

BESSER works with Python 3.9+. We recommend creating a virtual environment (e.g. [venv](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html), [conda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/)).

The latest stable version of BESSER is available in the Python Package Index (PyPi) and can be installed using

    $ pip install besser

### Building From Source

If you prefer to obtain the full code, you can clone the git repository.

    $ git clone https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER.git
    $ cd BESSER

Install *build*, then generate and install the *besser* package. Remember to replace `*.*.*` by the package version number.

    $ pip install --upgrade build
    $ python -m build
    $ pip install dist/besser-*.*.*-py3-none-any.whl

You can check the installation of the *besser* package.

    $ pip list

### Functionality

- `sample_model.py` - examples of usage of BUML for describing data models
- `buml-to-sql.py` - convert BUML to other data formats
- `streamlit-gen.py` - generates Streamlit application from `streamlit-template-py.j2`
- `streamlit-llm.py` - iteratively generated by ChatGPT visualisations for Library model

### Auxiliary

- `img`: contains UML diagrams for example models (Library & Cinema) and Activity diagrams for BUML-to-SQL and BUML-to-Django template converters
